---
toc: False
layout: post
description: Absence of Self
categories: [reflection]
title: I
---

## “I”

First and foremost, I would like to pay homage to three jewels and my gurus from whom I have received teaching. Whatever I am writing here is nothing that I have came up by myself. It is from my own understanding of teachings that I have received and books I have read written by Buddhist scholars. I would like to make another thing very clear that I am an amateur reader or not a avid reader hence I would highly recommend you to examine and cross check whatever I am claiming or citing with respective legitimate source. I am always open to any discourse.

The last book that I have read is called “What makes you not a Buddhist” by Dzongsar Jamyang Khentse Rinpoche. For me it was very convincing and brief book to really understand about Buddhist philosophy. In that book, Rinpoche have used method of contradiction or elimination to prove him or her a Buddhist. He claims that if anyone who accept the four seals are Buddhist. The four seals are mentioned by Buddha himself and those are:

*“All compounded things are impermanent.*
*All emotions are pain.*
*All things have no inherent existence.*
*Nirvana is beyond concepts.”*

Anyway, I am  here to question the existence of self or “I”. Most of us, care so much about ourselves. I am not saying whatever you are doing out there claiming self care is hundred percent wrong.  But have you ever asked yourself about the existence of yourself. I mean something deep, not simply looking in the mirror and convinced by an image formed on your retina as yourself. The reality is that you are compounded thing made up of millions of cells and millions of ideas. You don’t exist by your own or you have no inherent existence.

Since you are compounded thing, you are impermanent hence you are not reliable. Now the question is, are you going to waste your time and energy on an unreliable thing. Do you really thing your unreliable self will be satisfied after binge watching a whole season of your favorite show in Netflix or eating a tub of choco chips ice cream or drinking an expensive bottle of whisky. You know the answer. Its not going to. But it doesn’t implies, you should hate yourself or let yourself harm. The reason is that, to do that also you need to prove yourself's existence on its own or else you are don’t really have an objective to harm or hate.
After reading this book, I try my best to question my action or reaction to anything with respective to those four seals. Most of the time, it sounds very logical and I started getting lot of time and was able to save lots of energy. But to be honest, sometimes it is something which made me feels like, this is too crazy to be real. But if you are aware of your impermanence and unreliability, I am pretty sure, you will gain another kind of sight. I think its worth taking that short rather than running in that rat race. I hope may all sentient being will be able to gain that deep down conviction of four seals anytime soon.